flappy bird jam



required
---------------
bugs:
----------
there's some sort of speed level that makes the trees shake and it looks terrible
-----

need to:
	make gameplay more fun
		difficulty: easier at the start, ramping fair difficulty, tune all those sliders
		make controller more nice: play with removing the negative y velocity, some more play
		browse other flappys for inspiration
	art stuff - have a not-tree top, have some sort of bottom/top/background
	have time for dinner
	some sort of playtesting before release


want to:
	some particles on death would be nice, good time to put score in center of screen too
	other random polish as noted below
	
plan:
 2 hr breaks, 10 or so available:
 4 gameplay tuning
 2 art tuning
 4 other polish (particles, nicer tweens, cool intro/outro)
---------------

-add moving&killing top/bottom
-tune player movement
-tune difficulty


art stuff:
	border on top & bottom (that kill or bounce)
		have a few tree sprite options, have a background parent randomly(normal distr?) spawn sprite children, of varying heights and sizes and parrallax/layer
	particles on death and stuff would be rad
	more interesting background?


difficulty system
	scaling probably, level system?
	
	variables:
		-gap size
		-distance gap moves vertically each obstacle
			and the minimum gap movement
		-speed
			-speed of obstacle movement (reaction time)
			-speed of obstacle spawn (space/inputs to move vertically)
			should likely be related directly, so obstacles are roughly consistently distanced
		-random ranges of all of the above (variances)
		-player/obstacle size (zoom camera?)


difficulty goals
	start of game: large gaps, gaps can move most of the screen but not all. slower pace
	pace speeds up a bit
	gaps narrow a bit
	gaps can move across entire screen
	pace speeds up a bit more
	gaps narrow a bit
	gaps are always far apart
	game speeds and speeds and speeds


game flow polish:
	start of game: have top/bottom move, some wind gusts - and have wait-for-input prompt. then start game
	end of game: little flash/screen shake, explosion, menu drops/hangs in from the top? elastic tween, on ropes?
movement:


currently:
	feels a little slow paced/boring. can get to 30 some before any sort of challenge, and dying doesn't really feel like my fault
		-tighten up colliders (when i have art, probably), they are too forgiving
		-movement should feel more deliberate (dark soulsy) - each input is too minor right now, it lets you go basically wherever you want with no strategy, so dying feels like you're dumb or made a mistake
		
		











notes
---------------
probably should destroy player on hitting the bottom
and have clouds on the top as collision? or maybe just push player back aggressively (can check for player input and give opposite*1.25 thrust)

hot air baloon: endurance mode where you have limited fuel?

setup a group bus script, i have magic strings
---------------


polish
---------------
better player movement
	-can check if velocity.y > 0, if so reduces velocity.y by a percentage (50%)? - it instantly cuts aggressive falls on button press
	-check in on player size
	-check in on controls, maybe there should be a cooldown or something on flaps
	-have that fire tween in and out, size and/or alpha
	-particle effects/fire on input, could help it feel good
	
better respawn
	-have score show in center of screen or something for a bit while you respawn (it's easy to miss and it clears quickly)
	-have the player grow in or something, instead of just appearing
	-don't start game until you've pressed an input

better obstacles
	have the size of the gap more interesting - normal distribution to a reasonable size? better tuned size?
	roll 1-100, 20% random placement, 40% in line, large gap; 20% in line, small gap; 20% moving? increase odds of difficulty as you progress?
	could have the individual obstacles bob up and down a little (on higher difficulties?) - maybe just the sprite?

better pacing
	zoom out, speed up over time?
	save and show highest score?
	have "levels" or checkpoints - every 5 or so obstacles there's a harder one, then you progress to a harder difficulty?
		have a "skip levels" checkbox for experience player - on pause menu?

powerups? pillar smashing?

better art :D
	fix tree to be 3:1
	have the top be not a tree
	have the bottom & top trees/clouds or whatever
	have a background :D maybe noise?
	
probably a pause menu or feature

have outer walls not be solid, maybe have some sort of push-back force, or at least an indicator that you're off screen like an arrow

spin out death - two tweens, one for rotation(infinite), and one to shrink scale to 0.05; then kill both and player node

sound effects and stuff
---------------








time 12/11










time 12/10
9am start
9:20 done setup (file structure, github page, etc)
9:53 controller working (never used rigidbodies before)
10:44 a bunch of rotation per speed polish (felt like character controller polish)
11:10 objects masked and colliding
11:30 snack break
11:50 player respawns, obstacles move
12:17 obstacles respawn and move
12:58 obstacles spawn in random positions and give points
1:15 added font and score label
1:30 break for shower
2:30 score and respawn polish (obstacles stop spawning, score resets)
2:40 break for lamp and text
2:50 planning, added more controls
3:16 back from lunch
3:45 random obstacle spawning
4:55 character controller polish
5:05 colour palette browsing
6:05 drawing
6:20 cleaning up and added sprites
6:48 back from din din
7:42 back from hair cut break
(begin semi-distracted tinkering)
10:24 added and tweaked difficulty scaling sliders
11:24 debugging difficulty and viewport
12 all done